Sometimes you need to add an additional
decision structure within
the decision structure
that you're already in.
So these are called Nested If Statements.
So it's a path inside of the path.
So basically it says,
if you make it past the first one,
I'll need you to check for
something else as well.
So here's some example code.
It says, if salary is greater than or
equal to requiredSalary, go inside,
and then we are met with another decision
structure, this one is the if else.
If the years are greater than or
equal to requiredYearsEmployed,
let them know they qualify for
a loan, otherwise, they don't, okay?
So you can nest these.
If-Else-If is another decision structure.
If situation A occurs,
we wanna do something, else if B occurs,
something else, else if C occurs,
something else.
So this is for when you have more
than two possible paths, right?
And you can go on and
on with this however many you need, but
it's basically a decision with
more than two paths, all right?
So we'll write another program.
This one is saying, display a letter grade
for a student based on their test score.
So we're still in decision
structure package,
let's create a new class,
we'll call this one, test results.
So new Java class, TestResults.
Okay, let's make our main method.
And we want to go ahead and
get the test score,
so let's ask the user to
enter your test score.
And we'll make a scanner.
I'm gonna read from the input,
make sure we import.
And this test score we're gonna read
in as a, let's read it as double,
just incase there is half credit,
all right?
So we'll call this score, and
we'll say scanner.nextDouble, perfect.
And let's close our scanner.
All right,
now we need to determine the letter grade.
Now, the letter grade can be A,
B, C, D, or F.
This is a single letter, so
I'm gonna introduce a new data type.
So we've seen strings which
are multiple letters.
Single characters are called char,
so it's C-H-A-R.
And we can name it grade, okay?
I don't know what the value is yet,
and it's fine to declare variables and
then later go ahead and set the value.
So it's based on this decision structure
with this variable will be initialized to.
So I'm gonna say,
if the score is less than 60,
then the grade is equal to, and
characters use a single quote, so F.
All right, else and
not just else, else-if.
So remember when we did if-else,
we had one condition, and
it shared it amongst them.
With the if-else-if, you add
a condition on each one of these elses,
except for maybe the final one,
if you want.
So we'll say else if,
the score is less than 70,
then The grade equals D.
Now, let's say that the grade is 65.
This first condition is true and
the second condition is true, right?
With this decision structure,
the if-else-if decision structure,
what the code is gonna do is find
the first condition that is true, and
it's only gonna execute that one.
So even if other conditions
happen to be true,
it won't look at any other paths.
It found the one path that
it wants to take, and
that's the first condition that's true,
all right?
Else if score is less than
80, then we have a C.
Else if score is less than 90,
We have a B.
And then finally, so for
the final else, it's up to you,
you can do another else-if, or
you can just do a plane else and
say, if none of those were true,
just do this, all right?
Grade equals A.
Questions on this so far?
Perfect, last thing is
just to print it out.
So we'll say, your,
oops, put it in quotes,
your grade, and then append the grade.
Let's run it.
Someone give me a grade.
A score.
0 to 100, quickly.
>> 78.
>> 78, so my test score is 78.
>> What should the grade
be based on our code?
>> C.
>> That is a C, all right.
Very good, okay?
One more, let's just do over 100.
Okay, extra credit.
Yeah, got it A, right, cool.